---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

#Add pictures later

It took me a very long time to start writing the "About me" section because I see myself as a very complicated person!

I have recently lost my father, it took a huge burden on me and my family. It was really hard to let him go. Eventually, when we did, it crushed me. However, I just didn't have time to deal with grief, I had to wipe tears off and continue with my life and responsibilities. **Bobby asked me to write about me and how I deal with stress, he said if I can even help one person, I might save their life. He said he wished someone would tell him all these on his darkest moments when he was younger** I am not mush of a blogger but after putting lots of thoughts into it, I decided to write down and dig deeper into my past to see what has shaped my personality today.

* I want Armin and Aidin to know that they are very special. I want them to love and cherish the life we have and be proud of their background and where they are coming from. Life has ups and downs, but even in the darkest times look for happiness. In difficult time imagine a better day.
* I do not believe in any religion but in humanity and science.
* I see myself as a multicultural person.
* to my friends, if you see me not hanging out and needing space is not because I don't want to spend time with you, it's because everybody is dealing with stress differently and I need space, I need time and space and alone time that allows me to see the situation, analyze it and eventually overcome the situation


Here is a little about me and my past:

- maman
  * Baba joon's was born in Sabzevar in Khorasan Province of Iran. His family were doing pretty well, he has 2 younger sisters. Unfortunately, his dad passed away when he was very young and they lost all their belongings. baba joon had to work full time at such young age to provide for his family while going to school
  * Maman is the eldest of four children, they were are born in Sabzevar but when maman was 8 baba joon decided to leave Sabzevar to find a better job. They went from city to city, eventually settled in Tehran were baba joon was able to find a job in education office of Qazvin, Tehran. Baba joon's manager, the head of education in Qazvin soon realizes that baba joon is smart and indeed capable of doing alot more than just day to day office organization. He promoted baba joon to become the head of exams in Qazvin.

- Baba's life
  * Baba came from a financially good family and was born in Sabzevar as well. He didn't talk a lot about his family, however. From what I know, my grandparents were land owners in Sabzevar, but they used to travel often. My father was pretty much raised by my uncle who was 17 years older than him. I never met my paternal grandparents but I have heard they were generous people, my grandfather used to let poor people reside in his lands. My father, unlike his siblings, didn't show much interest in staying in Sabzevar and become a landowner. He decided to move to Tehran at the age 16 to pursue education and work. He moved to Tehran, rented a small room, continued education and eventually joined Army as an accountant.

Maman and Baba met through mutual friends, they dated for 2 years and got married after maman graduated from high-school. She then continued her education in what's called today and Early Childhood Education to become a teacher.

I was born in Tehran, Iran, to a loving, working class family. My mother is a retired teacher and my father was an accountant in the Army. I was born in 1982, during the Iran-Iraq war. Being born during the war, my early childhood memories are overwhelmed by fear of bombs hitting our house, fear of my father having to go to the front line, fear of not seeing my family and friends the next time the Iraqis attack.
  * I remember towards the end of the war, it got so bad that my mother, siblings and I had to pack our suitcases and go to Sabzevar (my parents' birth place in East of Iran) to be safe, while my father had to stay in Tehran due to his job and responsibilities. I was about 4-5 years old. I remember it was in the middle of school year and TV started covering school materials for those who were on the same boat as us. I don't remember exactly how long we were gone, maybe 2-3 months. Eventually, things got better and we came back home.
  * Another instance, I remember one Friday we had my uncle and his family and grandparents over, Alarm went off from the radio which was the attack signal. All houses and schools back then had basements we used as a shelter. Our shelter was accessible through the yard. My family and our guests rushed outside to go to the basement, as we were running towards the basement I looked up and saw orange things falling from sky, right above my head, we thought we would get killed. We hugged each other goodbye this time. After a while, when we heard the *green signal* (alamate sabz) from the radio we came up and saw a huge black cloud. The bombs had hit a block away from us. Later, my dad found pieces of bombs on our roof which he had to take them to military base.
  * Luckily my father never had to leave for the frontline, but I lost a cousin and a second cousin, both soldiers, in the war.
  * It was a ver tough time, Iran was not a rich country. I remember often military trucks coming to neighborhoods asking for donations for the soldiers and everyone did all they could to help.
  * All that said, things weren't so horrific all the time. Tehran was far enough from the boarders that I didn't see any ground attacks. Air stikes didn't happen every day either. But the effect of war was visible everywhere. Destroyed houses in some cases and mostly in economy.
  * Things that made it easier during those really hard days was my family and support groups. My family stuck together, we helped each other. Neighbors didn't hesitate to help each other either. It seemed like were all a very big, strong family. We still laughed, we took every opportunity to go for picnic, we celebrated every Nowruz (Persian New Year), every Chahar Shanbe Suri (celebration of the last Wednesday of the year), every birthday, and everything else in between!
  * One thing I really love about Iran is that families stick together, for example, my mom and dad had to work, my grandparents both worked as well. I was raised by my grandfather's mother, her name was Farokh. She was such a beautiful old fashioned lady. It seemed like she never lost her Qajar look! She made sure her hair is always freshly colored by Hana, she had redish hair, darker skin and gray eyes. She would part her hair from the middle and always braid her hair. She had a white scarf hanging from the middle of her head to show her beautiful red her and the two braids falling from each side of her shoulder out of her scarf.
  * I loved her. She had a seizure in sleep and passed away nine days later at a hospital in Iran. That was the first time I learned the meaning of loosing someone you love, I was about 9 years old. I saw her body being washed, wrapped and lowered to grave.

    * Looking back, I believe that was when I learned to make the best out of the situation, to **make opportunities** not just sit and wait for one. I learned happiness doesn't just happen, that I have to make it. Life gets hard, but if you don't look for motivation, things are just going to get harder. I learned to wish for a better tomorrow and push through the day.

War ended in 1988, things slowly start to get better, even though economy was still suffering. I grow up in a middle class neighborhood and went to a public school. My first year, I went to the school that my mother was teaching. That didn't end well, since I started often excuse myself out of my classroom and sneak into my mom's class! I remember I was getting spoiled by her students, I was 6 and they were 10. Often during the breaks they would rush to get me snacks and *take care* of me. In one instance I got caught climbing the flag pole and that was the last straw. Soon, my mom found out and I transferred me to a different school :/ I was what you call it the clown of the class. I don't remember even being mean to anybody, but didn't hesitate any opportunity to make jokes and make others laugh. That often got me into troubles. The punishment was, often, to stand on the corner of the classroom for 5 minutes with both hands and one leg raised!

As I grew olde, that energy shifted, I got into sports, taekwondo and basketball, and also paid more attention to my education. I was considered to be a top student. In Iran we have to choose between three majors in high-school to get prepared for university. I chose "Mathematics and Physics" which was considered to be the nerdy (khar khoon) one! I did pretty good in high-school, my goal was to get into the University of Tehran, or Sharif University which are considered to be the top two universities of Iran. That was a very difficult goal I had set for myself.

At the end of the fourth year of high-school (pre-university) everyone who wants to attend university has to take a national exam called *concur*. Before taking the exam, you also have to choose your major and the university you are competing for. My first choice was Computer Hardware Engineer at the University of Tehran. I knew this would be an extremely difficult goal, not only I had to compete with people across the country, but some of those students were olde, maybe more experienced, or those who took a year off to prepare for the exam. I promised myself to do my best and if it doesn't happen I will take a year off and prepare for the exam, like many other students.

Eventually when the results got published, I saw that I didn't make it to the University of Tehran's Computer Engineering and ever though I had promised myself not to get disappointed, I was... I remember spending all night in the yard thinking what could I have done to pass that exam. I had never failed, that was very hard on me. Wiping my tears off, I went back inside, acting everything was OK and it was part of the plan!

A few weeks later, I got an unexpected call from my uncle, my mother's brother, who lived in Bloomington, Illinois. He offered me the opportunity to come to the US and continue education at Illinois State University, in Normal Illinois. That was a very hard decision in many ways. First, I was an 18 years old girl, who was raised furiously independent but up to that point never thought of leaving my country. Second, I was an Iranian citizen considering applying for visa for the United States, the counties didn't have very good relationship back then, worst than now. Third, my kind as my uncle was, I had met him only 2-3 times up to then.

My parents, siblings and I sat down and discussed the opportunity. Eventually, my father encouraged me to at least give it a shot and apply for the visa, I had nothing to lose. If anything, I would get to start my higher education sooner rather than wasting a year hoping score right next year around! This was a surprising suggestion from my dad! If you talk to most Iranian, most of then would tell you their dads are very strict when it comes to their daughters. I think my dad saw this as a great opportunity for me and even though deep down he knew it would be very hard, he wanted to give me the courage to become more independent make grown up decisions. He also very much loved my uncle and had lots of respect for him, that I believe made it easier for him to come to the conclusion that he has to let me go!

Getting that level of encouragement and support from my family, I eventually filled up ISU application, got interviewed on the phone and received my I-20 to apply for visa! In August 2000, my mother, grandfather, cosine, and I went to Cyprus for my cosine and I to apply for the Student Visa (F1). We went to the American embassy in Nicosia for the interview. That day, for some reason, all students that were in the same group as I was got rejected for their visas, all parent got theirs, including my mother who applied for visa so that she can come and be with me for the first months. Hats in hands and disappointed again, I pulled myself together and decided to just chill on the beach on Larnaca for the rest of our trip!

Right around November, one of the friends I met in Cyprus called me and said she's heading to Syria to apply for the visa again, she encouraged me to go with her and give it another chance. At that time, I had started studying and planning for my next's year's concur. I shared the news with my parents but I was very undecided, thinking that would be a waste of time and money and will distract me from studying. Then my father suggested that this would be a great girlfriends travel opportunity and no matter what happens I should have a good time and come back fresh to prepare for my next concur. Eventually with my parents support and encouragement I decided to head out to Syria, but undecided whether or not go to the embassy, I did not take any of my original transcripts, just some copies plus my passport.

This was a fun trip in an old historic country. My friend, Sepideh, and I spend the first couple of days sight-seeing and heading shopping areas. Then Sepideh suggested I prepare my applications and apply for the student visa again, so I did. Knowing that I didn't have any of my original documents, just copies, I was pretty sure I will get rejected again. Anyway, on our interview day, my name was called. The interviewer asked me for my original document, I responded I don't have them with me, he looked shocked and said did you think I will give you visa with just copies? I replied, it was a last minute decision, I love to study and I think this would be a great opportunity, never the less I am getting prepared for concur in Iran, so one way or another I know I will continue my education. He paused for a few seconds and said, come back at 2pm and get your visa! And that's how I found my way to the U.S.A...

I went back to Iran, still in shock, now suddenly my plans were changed, my life was about to take a totally different direction. The 18 years old me had only couple of weeks to say goodbye to all my family and friends, pack my as much as I could squeeze in two suitcases and head to the other side of the world on a one-entry student visa. I didn't know when would be the next time I would be back to my home, to my friends and family, to my country. I was in shock, confused, nervous, and undecided. I was so happy that my mother had her visa and could at least accompany me for the first few months, I had an uncle in the U.S. and my grandparents had Greencards, so they could come and go. But I would deeply miss my siblings and my father who couldn't apply for the visa due to his military background. That was the moment that suddenly I realized I am grown up and I have to make a very difficult decision. One one hand was staying in my country, with all who I love deeply, but uncertain about my high education and life goals, and on the other hand was a great opportunity that could make my dreams come true. Once again, with lots of support and encouragement from my parents and family I decided to pack and start my journey.

On a very cold day, December 17, 2000, my mother and I landed in O'Hare international airport and was warmly welcomed by my uncle and aunt who had come to pick us up from the airport. I was extremely nervous, didn't know what to expect, how to survive knowing very little English. I had missed the school orientation, but my uncle took the time to take me on a tour around university and had already signed me up for my first semester and collage dormitory. He also supported me financially to pay for my university and I promised to treat the money as a loan and give him back as soon as I landed my first job. I started at ISU as an international student in January 2001.

I moved to Colby international dormitory, I stayed there during the weekdays and came to my uncle's house over the weekend to be with the family. My mother returned to Iran in February. It was really hard, I had a one-entry visa which meant if I leave the country I had to apply for the visa again and who knew if I could get it. My aunt was an Electrical Engineer student at U of I so my uncle and aunt spent majority of their time in Urbana Champaign. But It was great having my uncle there to come to when they were in Bloomington. By the second semester I joined Computer Science major and I took as many courses I could to graduate, partially because it was very expensive being an international student.

One thing I wish was different is that I suddenly felt so much older than my real age, I had to live with the fact that I cannot go back to visit my family every Christmas, celebrations, summers, or other occasions that my friends would go home. At the same time, I had lots of fun and considered myself very lucky to be able to come to the US and meet people from all around the world, make friends and learn about different cultures. On the other hand, I came from a country with a very bad economy, I didn't have extra money to go partying or doing other things rather than spending on vitals and my school supplies. Even then, I had learned to make the best out of the situations. I kept my chin up and kept a positive attitude, I kept going.

On September 11, 2001, things took a turn for worst. I remember that day I was running errands, going to the university housing service to take care of my rent. I saw the TV on showing a plane ran into a building. I thought that was a movie and didn't pay much attention to it. Paid my bill and ran to my English Literature class. I had to meet with my professor for private tutoring. I got to her office a bit early and I sat behind the door working on my homework, then another teacher, who happened to teach my class once and knew me ran into me, yelling where are you from? Surprised and confused, I answered from Iran. She yelled Go back home, go back to your country. Right there my professor came over and asked her to leave immediately, she took me to her office and explained what was going on. My heart broke, I didn't know what to think. I know Iran and America already had a very tense relationship but I just couldn't imagine the Iranian government would do such inhumane act. I ran back to my room in fear and uncertainty. Next morning when I left my room to go to my classes I realized all international names were ripped from the doors. Even though later it was announced that Iran was not indeed involved in 9/11 I learned that I had to be cautious introducing myself as an Iranian. That leaded me to stay in my room more often and stay out of social activities unless with a group of close friends. As days and months passed on I started missing home more and more. It got to a point that every night I cried and cried missing home and wishing I could go back, and every morning I wiped my tears off, hoped for a better day and went after life. Little by little the happy me turned in to a quiet rather sad person who preferred spending time alone in my room, studying, drawing, listening to music and dreaming of going back to my family.

In early 2000's it wasn't very easy to communicate with my parents either. Our communications were limited to occasional letters sent my mail. Scheduled phone calls so I make sure I would be home or at my uncle's house to speak to my parents. Back then, I didn't have enough money to buy a computer either. I used to be at the computer lab all days and late nights to finish my homework. It wasn't until right before my graduation that I finally bought a laptop and was able to communicate with my parents over yahoo chat and web camera on a shaky internet.

How did I became a citizen? one summer in 2001, a friend of mine and I were walking in Walmart, on their photography section I noticed a banner saying "Greencard Lottery picture" joking about our messed up F1 student visa situation my friend and I decided to try our luck by applying for the Greencard lottery. Year after while I was in Atlanta visiting my cosine, my uncle called "You are one lucky person, you have to come back as soon as you can." - What happened? - You just won a chance to get your Greencard through the lottery. Holly shit, I couldn't believe it. I came back soon and started application to apply for my Greencard.

In May 2004, one semester earlier than scheduled, I graduated with the B.S. of Computer Science with honers degree from ISU. I was happy, I had finally made it through. Now as a graduate student I could live in Graduate student's apartments, or live with my uncle in order to save money. ISU's honor program would assign students to mentors to help them with their career. I was introduced to a beautiful intelligent lady, her name was Judie. Judie and I connected almost immediately. Not sure what it was, her very kind face, well mannered, the fact that she had traveled all around the world, the fact that she was living a very independent life, or the motherly feeling I felt from her that I had missed for the past years. Whatever that was, to date, I consider that a match from Heavens! Judie and I met often when she was not traveling the world and talked about everything, I loved her :) After my graduation I decided to go for a graduate degree. Knowing that I could live off-campus, I decided to move in with Judie. She welcomed me very warmly and I felt right home with her.

When I started my graduate degree in Fall of 2004, I had not heard from my Green card lottery yet. My number was not called and I was about to loose the chance. Eventually on the last couple of weeks before DV lotteries of 2001 expires, my number was called. My uncle and I travelled to Chicago for the interview. My heart was pounding, I had teary eyes, this was my chance to finally be free to travel, to go back and see my parents, to get a job. The officer called me to his office, he was a very young gentleman, sounded very calm and polite. He asked me basic question about why I am here, and why I haven't gone back to Iran for the past four years. He admired the fact that I valued my education and persistence, at last he stamped my password and approved me for my Greencard. My heart stopped I remember things slowed down, I couldn't hold my tears back just put my head down on his desk crying and saying I can go visit my family now. He gently helped me get up and shook my hand. I never forget that moment I wanted to scream in joy and run, but hey, I was in the Department of Homeland Security and any suspicious action would have caused me lots of troubles! Nevertheless, I finally felt free! Just then, I landed an interview with State Farm in September during the University's job fair and in November 2004 I started my first job as a System Analyst at State Farm, Bloomington IL.

At last, I was finally happy, it felt like all my hard work finally paid off. I was making $45K and with that I started paying my student loan back aggressively and saving as much as I could so that I could travel home in the Summer. Summer of 2005, I was finally able to go back home for the first time since December 2000. Words cannot describe how I felt when I saw my family for the first time. I was so happy, so blessed. But my parents had aged, my little brother was now over 6 foot tall. I soon realized that my dad was not driving anymore, then I found out that he had a stroke and that had effected his motor skills. It said coming to the reality of life, my parents had aged, but I could still see the sparks in my mom's eyes and my dad's face. My little niece who was 4 when I left was 8, and I had a brand new nice who was born just a couple of weeks back. My second sister was now married with two babies. And I had missed all that. I was in Iran only for a couple of weeks, time went by so fast but I was so happy and lucky and blessed to be able to see most of my family in such short time. Before I knew I had to pack my bags and return to U.S.

This time around, even tough it was so hard leaving my family again, I didn't feel as sad and depressed. Things had changed, I had something to look forward to. I could work, I had rented my own apartment, I could finally travel home when I wanted to. I came back to US for determined than ever to make a happy successful life and to make my parents proud. I wanted them to see I valued their trust in me to send me off at such young age and trust that I could make good decisions for myself. I continued working full-time at State Farm and studying for my MS degree full time. That meant waking up around 4-5 am, study head to work by 6, take off around 11 to go to my class, come back to work, some days take off again around 4 for my class, come back to work till about 7pm, go back home, study, crash, repeat!

I graduate with the MS of Technology from ISU in May 2006. This time, my parents were able to get visas and come for my graduation. I couldn't be more proud. My mom was the same beautiful angel with a big smile on her face, but my dad had changed. He still liked reading books, especially Hafez, but his motor skills had become worst. He would like really fast sometimes, looked like he didn't have a control of his speed. Even then, he would come out with us, it was his first time in America and he loved it! He loved the city, he loved the country, he loved the American people. Then he said to me "now I am finally happy and relax that you live here, you are safe and surrounded by such kind people." Then he told me **I wish Mohammad, my brother, also find his way this way and start making a great life for himself, if that happens I will be very happy** My parents stayed with me for a couple of months and they returned back to Iran In July. I felt accomplished, I was a very young woman, holding MS degree in a foreign language that up until 6 years ago I only knew a few words, I was working full-time in a great company and now I was able to host my parents to come to the US; we traveled, they saw ISU, they came to State Farm, we traveled to Chicago and visited the museums, and we had a great time together.

Life went on as usual, my spirit was good, I felt like the old self again. Then, I decided to finally put some more time in my dating and relationship. In May of 2006, right before my graduation, State Farm had hired consultants from Thoughtworks to come and teach a Bootcamp. I decided to attend the classes because I wanted to learn the "right way" of programing. Bootcamp was a 6 weeks class thought by two instructors to teach students TDD, Design Patterns, pair programing and so on. One of the teachers was Bobby Norton. He was cute and very intelligent! Well, I was a student and he was a teacher, we couldn't officially date, but we had good conversations on breaks :) At some point he asked me what brought me to the us **let Bobby write this one** After the Bootcamp ended we kept in touch as friends. After all he was living in Toronto and my sister was in a process of moving to Toronto.

Bobby and I kept in touch often talking about trips and a few times I schooled him about Iran. It wasn't until March of 2007 that we finally happened to be in Toronto at the same time and met again. We went out for a dinner, not a date, but definitely realized we had something more than friendship in common. In May 2007, Bobby was working in New York for an airline company, he invited me to New York and the rest is History!

At that time, it felt like I was living my life at its fullest. I had finally met a person that I felt in love with for all good reasons. He was caring, open minded, intelligent, and hard working, everything I ever imagined. At that time, Bobby was still working for Thoughtworks, based in Toronto and working in New York for a client. I was still in Bloomington working for State Farm. Our connection was deep, we didn't let the long distance get on the way of our love. We managed to see each other if not every week, every other week. At some point, Bobby missed his flight from Toronto to come and see me, my love decided to jump back in his car and drive for the first time from Toronto to Bloomington <3

At the time, especially, I always kept my life to myself, my datings, my plans and so on. I just didn't want to go through others judging who I hang out with and who I date. But this time was different. I felt in love with Bobby on a whole different level. I didn't care who will find out, who would see us together, and what they will say. So I decided to break the news of me dating and American Bold guy to my family, that way they won't hear it from other mutual friends who might have seen us in public in a very small city. I first shared the news with my mom, but not my father, I was shy.

By summer of 2007, I had worked at State Farm for almost 3 years, it was a great company but I was ready to make a move. Deep down I was a big city girl and it felt like I never got used to the small city life. Just about the time that my life started settling, I was ready to make a move again. That summer I decided to apply for Thoughtworks and move to Chicago, at the same time, Bobby got a geek in Beijing and he was leaving in October. After a very long process I finally landed a job at Thoughtworks and moved to Chicago. I rented a small studio in Greek Town and on my second day at the job I was in New Jersey at a client site. I was happy and fulfilled, but I missed Bobby. Lucky enough an opportunity came up in Beijing in a different team with a client in UK. I was able to get the position and I moved to Beijing in January of 2008.

During my stay in Beijing I went to Iran for the Nowruz of 2008. I spend a week celebrating holiday with the family, of our way back at the airport baba and I were chit chatting where baba finally broke his silence. He pulled me on a side,
  - I heard you are in a relationship
  - shit... I couldn't hide, had to talk.. YUP
  - He's an American
  - YUP
  - I trusted you to leave the country at a very young age, and live on your own. I trusted you can make good decisions then, there's no reason I won't trust your decision now
  - Thanks baba joon.. blushing
  - There's only one thing, I have heard he shaves his head, ask him to grow his hair if he wants to come to Iran!!
  - Really baba, is that your only concern, no, that's not going to happen, he looks good bald!

Bobby and I had an amazing time together; we worked hard and getting to know each other more. We came from totally different backgrounds yet had so much in common. Both furiously independent, both left home and lived on our own, both hard workers, etc. Living together in Beijing opportunity for us to bond while exploring an ancient country and getting around not knowing the language. I had a blast! I also traveled to Iran, since it was closer to China, to visit my family. I came back to Chicago unexpectedly due no my visa not getting renewed because of Olympics, Bobby came back early September. Being apart for three months was really hard on us. Well, that's when Bobby decided that we love each other too much to be apart, he proposed on September 18th and we were engaged.

After we got engaged we decided to take a trip to Iran for Nowruz 2009 so my family could see Bobby and he would have a chance to see where I am coming from and learn a bit more about my culture. He was very nervous but we had a great time **Bobby write your experience in Iran here** We also decided to have an engagement party, right before we come back where all the family and friends came over to meet Bobby.

Months passed by, we had scheduled our wedding for May 22, 2010. We were happy and eagerly planning our wedding. In fall of 2009, we started the process of visas for my parents so they could come for the wedding. Parents and I were in regular contact, late Fall suddenly I wasn't able to reach out to anyone, couple of weeks passed till my sister called and gave me a horrifying news. My father had gone under a prostate surgery which was considered to be a low risk, unfortunately after his surgery they realized that he has lost his speech and movement. After such exams they found out that during the surgery he has had tens of small stroke. They didn't have any hopes for his survival. This was just unbelievable, I was in a total denial. I just waited and waited, I was just waiting for him to wake up, I know he would. I didn't know what else to do. Eventually, I decided to pack and go to Iran when my mother called with a good news that baba woke up and he's going to come home. Once I got to speak with him and got reassurance that he's doing well, I canceled my plans to go to Iran, after all we had planed to all meet in Dubai in February where my parents were going to have visa interviews.

In February my parents and brother flew to Dubai from Iran, Bobby and I flew from here to united with them. I remember the moment I saw my dad, he was sitting at the dining table and as soon as we entered he got up walking towards us to greet us. It was a lovely moment to see him walking, talking, and smiling. But he looked too thin. My 6+ foot muscular army had was too thin and too fragile. That's when my mom broke the bad news to me that baba has an early dementia. I didn't know what to think of it back then. I just saw my dad as a person who always concurs difficult situations. After all, he's surrounded by his family who loved him more than anything and my mother who's been his faithful partner. We spent about 10 days in Dubai, during that 10 days, most of the time baba was fine, but from time to time, he couldn't walk, he would recall random memories. Sometimes his looks were just different as if he would look at me but not really.

My parents received their visa just a week before our wedding, at last they could come and be with us. Baba was now walking with help from others and a cane. I couldn't be more proud when he held my hand and very slowly walked me down the aisle. Even during our father-daughter dance he held is cane up, sign of happiness, while standing without any help, I never forget the look and fear in my mom and my sisters eyes when they almost jumped off their seats to catch baba. He didn't fall, he was happy!

At that time I was still working as an engineer consultant for Throughworks, traveling to Minnesota every week. Traveling was burning me out. Bobby had moved to a new company, DRW, and was working from Chicago. I wanted to stay home and spend more time with him. Unfortunately I didn't have a choice to stay in Chicago, so I decided to start our own business. Bobby and I both had a lot of product ideas **Bobby help writing this section**

In March 2011 we found out that we were expecting our first Child. This was so exciting and crazy at the same time. I had started my parents Greencard process. I never spent much time with kids or other mothers at that time. I didn't know what to expect, but knowing that Greencard process for parents were promissed to take about 6 months, we were hoping that my parents would arrive on time to be with us when our child was born. unfortunately, that didn't go as planned. The Greencard process was LONG and complicated ever step took forever and by the time of birth we had no news from their progress.

On Saturday, October 8th, I had a small party going own with close friends and celebrating the arrival of our baby Armin, on Sunday morning, I realized we had several missed calls from Bobby's family. Got really worried suddenly and was hesitating listening to the VMs. Eventually we did, it was step mother asking to call her back immediately. Time slowed down, I was looking at Bobby talking to his step mother holding his head. Bobby's father had a stroke in his brain hemorrhage. He had woken up in the morning but went back to bed because he was unusually tired, he never woke up. After talking to nurses and doctors we knew he's in vegetative state and will never woke up, he was kept alive with the help of machines, without them he would be gone within minutes. On one had it was the eight months pregnant me, on the other hand Bobby's father in the hospital in Orlando, FL. After much thinking, we decided it would be a bad idea if I traveled. We decided I stay in and Bobby flies to say goodbye to his dad. My heart was shattered. I loved him, he was the sweetest man and so kind, and a talented but quiet artist. I remembered the first time I met him, he was so tall with dark blue eyes, as soon as I entered their home, he gave me a big hug and took me to a chair that was covered with a protecting cloths, he uncovered it, it was a beautiful floral chair he had made. He said, I made this chair as long as you are here this is yours! Then he showed me the beautiful mirror he had made. All those memories just flashed before my eyes and I cried and cried. He passed away on Wednesday October 12th 2011. Plan was to have a cremation and wake ceremony for him on Sunday October 16 th, then Bobby would fly back a few days later.

I was home alone; even though several friends offered to come and be with me, I needed to be alone. That's how I can deal with stress, I need space, I need to collect my thoughts and analyze the situation. Saturday was a rough day, I went to my "introduction to birth for new moms" class and spend the rest of the time cleaning, organizing, and packing my hospital suitcase to distract myself away from all the stress. I went to bed that night wishing I could be with Bobby and hold his hands while he's going through such tough time, eventually I felt asleep. I woke around 5 am with a weird feeling before knew what woke me up, I realized my water sake was ruptured. I was having our baby. I was alone and scared, I called our doctor and he suggested I go to hospital since the water was ruptured. I called our best friends Roopa and Devang for help. Devang was a resident at Saint Joseph Hospital were I was registered to give birth. Roopa and Devang immediately came over and took me to hospital by 5:30 am. Roopa stayed by my side all day while I was going through wild emotions. I had to receive epidosin because I was not dilated at all, at the same time baby didn't have enough water and had to be born. I begged the doctors to give me some time so that Bobby could make it back. This was an extremely stressful time. Roopa and Devang took care of breaking the news out to Bobby. I cannot even imagine what went to his head when he heard the news. He knew I was safe and well taken care of with our best friends on my side. But that was the day of his father's awake ceremony. Bobby gave his Eulogy and left immediately to catch the next flight to Chicago. He arrived to the hospital around 11, straight from the airport. By that time, I was in severe pain. It was a rough night with extreme emotions, but we made it through. Our baby boy Armin was born on Monday, October 17th, 2011, at noon. He brought such joy and melted our hearts the moment we saw him.

It was though being a new parent, neither Bobby or I had any experience with babies, we didn't know anything, how to hold a baby, how to change diaper, clean, bathe, dress him, feed him, burp him, nothing. Armin had to be in the NICU for 5 days due to me developing fever for being in a very long labor for about 31 hours. On the positive side, that gave us a chance to learn what we needed to know from the NICU nurses, they were amazing! As if that wasn't enough, we also had to move to a new apartment 9 days after Armin was born. It was a difficult time, when we were with Armin, we took our stress away, he was such a great little boy, it was peaceful laying next to him and staring at him. And when he was taking a nap we were dealing with the grief of loosing Bobby's father. We know we had to pull ourselves together and come to peace with it, because we had a little baby who needed us. All things considered, we managed to back on track be functional again.

Bobby and I were always interested in education, graph and network visualization. **In February** of 2012, Bobby decided to leave DRW and start a new startup with a group of friends to focus on graphs and networks. By then we had two startup companies, Tested Minds which I was running and Bobby's new start up plus our own little family's startup! **For reasons** That didn't go as planned. By October of 2012, Bobby joined an education startup **Bobby Write this part**. Also finally, my parents received their visa and finally came to U.S. just before Armin's first birthday.

I was so happy that my parents were here at last, they saw Armin and it was falling in love instantly. Armin loved being spoiled by maman and chill at baba's arms and getting patted. However, this time baba's conditions were a lot worst, he just didn't see like himself any more, and I was still in denial, I just couldn't accept his situation. Baba he wasn't watching TVs anymore, didn't care about news, he couldn't read books anymore, or repeatedly read the same line. I just couldn't understand why he doesn't try anymore, I wanted something *against all odds* again. My dad had came back from death, made a very good recovery, but I couldn't encourage him enough to red Hafez or play chess, which he was *really* good at; I learnt playing chess form him around age 10 and not even once could win again him. He wasn't engaging in conversations anymore, sometimes he would just get up not knowing where he's headed to, so talking about his deceased parents calling him. All that still wasn't enough for me, I just wanted to see him trying more, I pushed him and pushed him but it wasn't working. My maman was caring for him in any way she could, more than I ever imagined, she would even feed him time to time because baba would forget to eat or sometimes unable to hold a spoon. They stayed with us for 3 months and then had to go back home.

Soon after they left, in March of 2013, we found out that we were expecting our second bundle of joy. Pregnancy is extremely tiring in the first few months. I was spending time with Armin and when he was resting and in the evening, I would work on my consulting projects, Bobby was an amazing father, I loved seeing them playing with each other. Armin looked exactly like Bobby's mother. He was such a cute cheeky boy, with a natural red mohawk. Bobby and Armin had a special connection, Bobby's inner boy would come out when he was playing with Armin, often seemed like he was excited about Armin's new toys more than he was, and that was so adorable!

The rest of the year went as smooth as it would get. Aidin was due November 4th. The day we found out we were expecting another baby, I made a bet, sadly just verbally, with Bobby and our doctor and the baby would be born on the same day as Armin. They thought I was crazy and odds were very little. as we got closer and closer one night I dreamed that I went onto labor 16th and baby was born on October 17th that was Armin's birthday. At least that got me to prepare my bag and take care of pre birth errands. This time, due to our insurance change, my birth was not covered by insurance and it was 100% out of pocket. That made me think of giving a natural birth and spend the money on a Daula who could be with us at the hospital, while maman would be home with Armin and baba. On the other hand Bobby had seen me during the first labor and he was very concerned. I remember him saying *verbatim* you are crazy, giving birth is like breaking 100 bones at the same time, there is no way you can do that. OH HELL NO!!! You just did not challenge a very hormonal pregnant independent woman who also happened to have god damn high tolerance of pain! That was it, now more than anything, I wanted to do it naturally. Luckily this time, my parents made it to US early October. As I had imagined, on October 16th once I head to bed, I started having a weird feeling of nausea and pain, I taught I had food poisoning, something was just not right. I was unable to sleep that night, I felt sick and restless. By around 5-6 am was then finally it clicked, SHIT I didn't have nausea, I was in labor; because my first birth was quite unusual I didn't know what a labor felt like and that's why it took me so long to figure it out!

Next day, I stayed as calm as I could, having a victory smile on my face that I was right about giving birth on the same day, I broke the news to my family. We had a small 2nd birthday celebration for Armin and by 6-7 pm my contractions were just close enough that I head to the hospital. We called my doctor, he was having a day off but kind enough to come to the hospital and check me around 8pm, he said: I know you were really hoping to have the baby today, but it's going to be tomorrow and he left. Well, let's say he was wrong! They called him back around 11:15, and Aidin was born all natural at 11:50 pm on October 17th 2013.

This birth was different in many ways, yet like a deja vu. I was at the same hospital, in the same room as 2 years ago on exact same day giving birth to our second baby boy, having the same doctor. Aidin was a small little boy, he was cute and looked very Persian with long, very black hair! Just like Armin, however, Aidin had to go to NICU due to digestion problems. We brought him home soon and the two boys bonded immediately. My mother was a total Champaign of the family. She had always amazed me with her strong personality, kindness, and devotion. She was my hero, she would take care of Armin when I was resting, help with Aidin when I was spending time with Armin or tired and she was also 100% devoted to baba. Baba's situation was again worst, he was weaker, more quiet, less mobile, yet had a big heart, kind and still sing old childhood songs to Armin as soon as Armin would ask him to, or clapped for him.

Unike Armin, Aidin was very demanding, he would kept me up all night and would keep me on my toes all day. He loved being held and constantly entertained. It was absolutely adorable seeing Armin and Aidin together. Armin was such a great big brother, just barely passed age 2, he was looking after his brother, help feeding him, changing him, playing with him, even rocking him to sleep. I couldn't ask for more.. wait.. I did, I was excited, so after 3 months of my parents staying I extended their stay for 3 more months and at the end I tagged along with them to Iran for 3 months, until Aidin was 9 months old! Meanwhile, Bobby had moved on to a new Startup, and he needed some time to focus on work, so this was a win-win for everybody.

Going to Iran was a great choice. Both babies connected with the family instantly. Both boys LOVED the company of his cousins and having my sister, mom, dad, brother, cousins, grandparents, great grandparents, neighbors, the list goes on and on, around. Meanwhile, I could finally take some time to rest, huh, it was much easier raising a baby in Iran than in the US! Time flew by, Bobby joined mid June for the last month. We traveled, we hung out with the family, and we all had a great time being together again. But that made it very hard to come back and be all alone again. Armin started pre-school a week after we came back and that helped him a lot adjusting back to the life in US and away from all the family, meanwhile I stayed home with Aidin.


By around March, I was getting ready to get back to the job market, after all, running your own company is a lot of work specially with two babies I barely had any time to myself or to rest. There I called for help again, and my parents were on they way to Chicago. By this time, I was burnt out, I finally decided as soon as my parents get in I will take a few months to catch up on sleep, get on shape and then get prepared for the job market. Like that ever happened in our lives, just shortly after my parents got to Chicago in early April, the company that Bobby was working for felt apart and 75% of the employees lost their jobs over night. And just like that all the plans changed again. I started lining up interviews while Bobby decided to take couple of months off to build and take over Tested Minds. By the end of April, I accepted an offer as an Implementation Engineer at Morning star with the start date of Mary 11th.

On May 6th, around 7 pm in the evening, maman and I were busy with cleaning rituals, maman was organizing their cloths and I was picking up toys from the floor when I heard my mama's concerned voice, what happened, why do you look like this, why do you do this, what happened. My heart stopped, I ran to their room, Baba's eyes were rolled all the way back, his body was stiff on his chair and he was shivering uncontrollably. My heart was pounding, I help baba yelling breath, cough, cough, I didn't know what happened to him, had never seen such thing. It was useless, I thought he is having a stroke and he is dying, his shivering took about 7 minutes till he finally calmed down, but he was not responsive. Ambulance came and we took him to hospital. I sat with him in the Ambulance to translate back and forth between my mother and the first responders. After a night of uncertainty, x-rays, KGGs, EKGs they finally voted on baba having a seizure and not a stroke, and the danger is passed. He came back home on Sunday. That was a reality check for me, baba was deteriorating, finally I got it. But maybe not, maybe it was my fault, I asked him to come over, maybe it was too much of pressure on him. Maybe it was my house's madness with two little boys making noise, maybe it was the food I cooked, maybe I made maman too busy and he felt lonely.. maybe maybe maybe.. How would I was starting a new job on Monday, how would I focus? How would I? How would I not worry? Now maman was home with Aidin and Armin on Mondays and Fridays, baba was just released from the hospital, what do I do now? Should I just ask if they want to go back to Iran if staying here is too much of a pressure? But at the same time, I didn't them to feel like I want to them to leave because what has happened, that was not the case. At the end of the week, I took baba for a checkup after hospital release when the doctor pulled me aside and asked, how long it's been since his dementia has started, I responded since 2009, doctor said he's strong, but people with dementia leave in average about 8 years, his time is ticking, you need to accept the reality. And that was the moment I finally accepted, baba has a dementia and this might be his last time here. I had to come to peace with it, I had to accept that baba is changed, he's not the same, I cannot just push him to walk, push him to talk, push him to eat by himself, to watch TV, to read, to sing, he just couldn't. This was a very harsh reality to tell my mom. By then, she had taken care of him like a mother for years. At some point I asked my mom, given the situation, what makes her going? How come she hasn't given up or just got a nurse? My mom responded when we were young, when your dad was himself, he never disrespected me, never missed any birthday day, women day, new year, any occasion even if he just brought flowers, you dad encouraged me to study and work which was very usual of many Iranian men at his time. Maman was right, baba loved her, and that love made maman care for baba beyond anything.

Little by little, baba gained his strength back and I started building trust gain. I was on a good path at work, by around October, we hired a full time nanny and my parents head back to Iran again.


Parents got their Canadian residency, My brother moved to Canada
After visiting US for the first time, my dad's long wish was for Mohammad to also leave Iran and build himself a life in US or Canada. Both me and my sister applied for Mohammad's residency. In 2015, soon after my parents went back to Iran, they were notified that they Canadian residency interview is schedule, while I had just received a letter that Mohammad is still under consideration. This was a good news after such long process. Parents were happy, after a long process of background checks, medical history and so on, they were approved for Canadian residency. Since Mohammad was under 18 when my sister applied for his residency he was considered to be a dependent of my parents, meaning either all three would get approved or none, and thankfully, they all got approved. Mohammad and parents arrived to Canada on December 13, 2015. We were all overjoyed. That Christmas was the best Christmas I ever had. We decided to join them for the celebration along with my uncle and his family. Every one was happy and had a great time. That was a true family Christmas celebration for us. Baba was so happy and he was smiling the whole time. Bobby, I and the kids flew there the day of Christmas and we returned the first day of the New Year.

That night I woke up around 2 am shivering, I had a very bad nightmare. I dreamed about my dad in the hospital dying, I was crying and talking to Doctors. One of the doctors told me he doesn't have much left, he's close to the end and you should say your goodbyes. I was up the rest of the night, deep in thoughts and worrying. Right around 2:30am suddenly heard Aidin screaming from bottom of his longs and banging his bedroom door screaming beeb beeb (meaning car), Aidin NEVER leaves his bed, even if he wakes up he keeps calling and calling to get me out of the bed to carry him out, this was very odd. Naturally, I got worried even more. **should I hint my other dreams?** The next day I told Bobby about my dream, crying. I called my sister, nobody answered, not the phone not the text. My heart was pounding I could feel the blood rushing to my head, something has happened. Eventually, I got a hold my my niece, she looked pale and sad. She said around 2am, EST, maman woke up to baba's snoring, except that it was not snoring, he was having a seizure in sleep, we didn't know how long his seizure had gone for. He was transported to hospital and had put under artificial coma so that they could control his seizure.

This was horrible, along with the reality of baba could be dying came all of us blaming ourselves. Maybe, the house was too crowded, maybe it was his long trip and relocation, my mom blamed herself for sleeping!, I blamed myself for having bad dreams... This took a toll on all of us emotionally, but we stayed together and supported each other through bad thoughts. Once baba's seizure got under control they lowered the sleeping doses to wake him up, but he was not even moving. Baba could have gone to vegetative state with perfect vitals. He was breathing on his own and managing his body temperature, but he was asleep. It was very hard for me to imagine baba in that situation, I was scared, I didn't want to see him to weak and sick on the hospital bed. I knew he wouldn't want us to see him like that. He was a proud Army man, he bragged about his strength and he was my hero. I stayed in touch with my family who NEVER left his bedside throughout the day, every hour. After about 10 of him not responding to anything I just couldn't take it anymore, it was hard for me to see him but eventually for my tickets and flew. We stayed with him days and nights, maman was committed to wake him up. She talked to him throughout the day, holding his hand, tickling his feet, brushing his hair, trimming his mustache... I was there for 4 days, days went by with us crying on his bedside, maman, Mohammad, my sister, brother-in-law, nieces and me. But I had two little babies and had to come back. The last day, I broke, I help his hand and cried and cried on his chess, begging him to give me a sign if he loves us. We played Armin and Aidin's videos for him which they were singing and asking him to wake up. Eventually just before I leave for the airport there was a sign. Baba started moving his legs a little and opened one of his eyes, we thought first that was involuntary movement. Then my mom moved from side to side, and just from a small gap in baba's eye we realized he was following maman with every movement; maman finally woke him up! I couldn't be happier, still nervous, but I knew I still had him.

We were happy and scared at the same time, baba was waking up slowly, every day he was up for a little longer but what if he would stay if that state? what if he would just be bound to the bed and could never walk or talk or would just be up for a few minutes a day? what then? did we do the right thing to bring him back or are we doing him more harm?

Days and weeks went by. Baba was getting a very good care at the hospital, he had shocked the doctors and nurses by waking up and making improvements. It got to the point that he started with physical therapy. Baba was released in mid March and came home. He was getting lots of care and love. He started physical therapy at home. To everyone's shock, baba made a kick ass come back. Downside was that he had lost his ability to swallow, he was in feeding tube. But other than that, he was walking a bit with help, he was able to sit with help first and on his own later, hold a pen and talk to us. It was great to see his smily face again.

All the stress of personal life had made me very weak and vulnerable, meanwhile, at my work I didn't feel like I was fitting in the organization anymore. Among other issues at work, my heart and sole was in medicine and education, so I started looking for a new job. In mid June, I accepted and offer from a local Chicago edtech company, eSpark Learning. This was a great way for me to refresh and shift focus form all that was going on. I joined eSpark on July 4th and what a great change!

Just a couple of weeks into my new job, one morning I got a call from my sister around 6am, she would never call me that early. My heart stopped, baba is dead... He was not dead but something very unfortunate had happened. His feeding tube had cut through his stomach and colon and he was transported to hospital again. That doctors had taken part of the tube out but they had to do a surgery to get the rest out of his stomach and they thought baba would not survive through the operation, they wanted us to make a decision. After a long discussion, we decided not to put baba through another surgery, we know it's going to be extremely dangerous, even if he would survive the surgery, we knew he would have problem waking up from anesthesia. We just thought to give him time to see if his body can get rid of it. Meanwhile we also had to make a decision whether to make another incision for a new feeding tube or put him through training to improve his swallowing. This time, knowing that baba had been doing just fine for the past few months, my sister had planned a family trip. This time I knew baba's situation is not critical, I trusted that he can overcome this with time and training too. I decided to drive to Canada right away to make sure my sister can go to her family trip. At that time, Mohammad had to go back to Iran to take care of some personal errands, he flew to Iran in May and was supposed to arrive in a few days. My sister and her family had been working very hard for years since they arrived to Canada, I really wanted her to relax for once and have a good time with her family. Maman and I were at baba's bedside all day, baba was in a good spirit during the day The nights were difficult, his dementia had gotten worst over time, I was puzzled why he's so uncomfortable at nights. One of the nurses told me that people with dementia tend to get worst at nights, they are confused, they start moving, they get nervous, they might feel lost and that was just part of the disease. Doctors put baba of physical therapy for swallowing. First baba could only get nutrition through IV, then he started very soft food and by the end of the week he was on a mesh food diet. I couldn't be more proud of him! With Mohammad coming back now I felt comfortable coming back home.

Baba was released after a couple of weeks, now he could eat dental soft food. His improvements continued to the point that he started eating by himself. Seeing his improvement, and knowing that we had a nurse for him, plus my sister's family and Mohammad on baba's side, we decided to send maman home to Iran for a break. Maman went back for a few weeks to visit the family and take a short break and came back. Things were going good.

Right around August, I got another call from Canada that was in an unusual time, again blood rushed to my head, I just didn't know what to think this time. Baba had another seizure while he was with his nurse. The nurse would come every day for couple of hours for my mom to be able to take a break. That day, maman goes downstairs to get some food. We had a camera in baba's room, so that even I could watch him if my maman need to step out for a bit. Maman decides to turn her iPad and watch baba though the camera, just a minute in, she saw baba's body suddenly becomes stiff and his eyes rolled back while he was sitting on the chair, she knew what this meant. She ran upstairs, nurse contacted the hospital and baba was taken to the hospital again. Again, baba had to be put in artificial coma because his seizure continued. My heart was crushed. My mom gave me confident that she'll update me with any news. I decided to stay in Chicago. After a week baba started waking up again, this time for couple of hours per day. At some point he told my mom that he's just tired of living like this. By September, baba was still in hospital, Bobby, and I wanted to see him but we just didn't know how to handle the babies, I didn't want them to see baba so sick and weak in the hospital, it would crush them. Eventually we drove to Canada, for a few days, we gave maman break for a few days to stay home with the kids while Mohammad, Bobby and I were with baba. Baba seemed tired, most of the days his eyes were closed, we didn't know if he's asleep or just unable to open his eyes. Those few days I was with baba holding his hands, stroking his hair, and begging him to sleep a little less. He would open his eyes from time to time and try to speak. He loved Bobby, so every time I called Bobby and told him he's here too he would make an effort to turn his head to find him. At the same time, this was also very emotional for Bobby, it reminded him of his father.

For the next few weeks things stayed more or less the same. About this time, doctors started talking my family about baba's situation and the fact that keeping him like this is not ethical. For baba some days he would be up for an hour more other days he was asleep all day. On November 1st 2016, yet another bad news call. That day, baba woke up, he was unusually aware and talkative, he was singing and speaking of memories. My sister and mom were both by his side. Then baba turns to maman and says, he's really tired and he just doesn't want to live like this, he asks why his life turned like this and he just wants to die. Mojgan steps out of the room to find the doctors and convince them baba can come home. While she was talking to doctor mama runs out of the room and informs the nurses that baba is having a seizure. They rush baba to ICU, this time, doctors are having a very hard time controlling his seizure, it took 16 hours. Once they discontinued the medicine baba was not waking up again. This time we just had a different feeling. This time, baba wasn't just asleep, he looked gone.

After a week of not seeing any improvement, on November 9th, Mojgan called me crying and seeking advice of what to do with baba's situation. That's when I put myself in baba's shoes. Did I want to live like this? Was this ethical? I knew deep down that we were giving him time but not the quality of life. I realized we were keeping baba because of us, because we just didn't know how to handle him being gone. We were scared, I had to make a mature decision. I told her enough is enough, we were on the same boat but nobody had the guts to make the final decision. I had been through a lot of shit while I was 18, I knew I could handle this better then they do. They had already been through so much for the past year. I didn't want to mother, who had devoted the past decade of her life caring for baba to live with this guilt. My sister and brother-in-law were on the same boat. They had done everything they could to take care of baba, they also though they can beat dementia and now my sister thought they were her guests and how could she make such decision? Mohammad still though he could make baba strong again and have him walk and return him back to normal with time. I knew we were just fooling ourselves, it was not because of baba, we were just buying ourselves time so we can finally accept the situation. Enough was enough. This time was different, baba's eyes were open, but he wasn't even blinking, I tried to squeeze his hand he would move but it was not voluntary. I observed him the next days, still the same, eyes open looked like he was staring somewhere in space, no movement, no blinking. But perfect vitals. This time around we started calling our family and relatives from all over the world to day their goodbye. Everybody cried, everybody begged him to wake up. My uncle in Iran who's older than my dad, my cousins on both side of family, my mother's father, my sister who was still waiting for her visa to come say goodbye to my dad.

Throughout my life, I often made decisions with my head and rarely with heart. I had to be practical here as well. I called the doctor that night and listened to him as a person not as daughter whose father and hero was dying. That night I signed the paper to transport baba to Palliative care. I hated my life that moment. I kissed baba and left. I told doctors to transport him that night and only call us if anything changed. I couldn't handle it, I hated myself, I hated my life, my entire world crashed. We all kissed baba goodnight and asked for forgiveness. One more look back at his monitors, it was perfect, his vitals were perfect, how could I do this? Why were we put in this situation? Baba didn't deserve this. He was such an honorable man. Throughout his life he always helped poors he brought his soldiers who didn't have anywhere to go during holidays to our house and hosted them life a father rather than a boss. Everybody in family loved baba. He just didn't deserve dying like this. I signed a paper to to cut food and water from him. It was hard, we somehow managed to drive home all in tears and silence. That night was quiet. We didn't know if baba has any level of consciousness or can hear us or can feel our presence. We were tore apart, we knew being on his side while he cut his food and drink was going to kill us. We decided not to visit the next day. Each of us chose a corner in the house to deal with our emotions. Next day even though we had decided not to be physically present at the hospital we kept calling throughout the day to check on him. Next day we couldn't take it anymore, we went to visit him at the hospital, his lips were dry, his tongue was dry. Maman was miserable, she had second thoughts, she wanted to end this and at least give him water, I knew by doing that we'd again give him time, he would die slower and miserable. We stayed for couple of hours and decided to go home before we change our minds. As we were leaving his nurse stepped in, she said she has worked in Palliative care for over 13 years and can spot when the patient is dying, she said she do her best to call us if she can see that coming so we can come for one last goodbye, so we left.

That night around 7pm the nurse called us and said baba's breathing is spaced out and he has just a couple of hours at best. We rushed to the hospital, meanwhile, my elder niece was at university, she was having a bar exam and we had not told her about the Palliative care. She loved baba, baba cared for her like a father when she was small. Despite of her exam in two days, we decided to break the news to her, it was her right to come to say goodbye. We rushed to the hospital, baba was having a high fever, his face was red, he was dehydrated. His breathing was spaced as the nurse said. My niece who was in university an hour away rushed to hospital as fast as she could, by 9pm my sister's family, our friends and I were all on baba's side holding his hands and loving him, we played his favorite music and Azan, Mitra walked in almost passing out at the door, she thought baba was dead. She came to baba and held his hand, we were all with him and after a little while we saw that his breathing was OK again. We were there till about 2am, then we decided to take a shift. Mitra, my niece, Mohammand, and maman decided to stay on his side at night, Mojgan and I went home to come back and stay with him during the day. On the forth day of Palliative care Mitra had to go back to university for her exam. That day we changed the shift, maman and Mohammad stayed with him during the day. Maman said baba was having very high fever all day. Mojgan and I went in at 7pm for maman and Mohammand to come home and rest.

Mojgan and I felt different that night. We felt calmer, we finally talked ourselves into accepting that this is the right decision for baba, that he wouldn't want to live like this and he would forgive us for this decision. Something was telling us that's the last night. Mojgan and I also felt like things were different when the family was on his side, specially my mom. It felt as if he was trying to stay when everyone was around, maybe that wasn't the case but that's how we felt. Around mid-night, we decided to give baba privacy, we kissed baba and whispered to his ears that we love him, that we are just going to step out for a little bit to gave him some privacy but we will back soon. Mojgan and I just went outside for a fresh air for about 20 minutes. When we came back, baba was still asleep, the nurses were taking a good care of him as well to ensure he's not at pain and he can breath. We sat with baba and decided to put the negativity aside and talk about all the good memories and confess all the bad things we did and never told him about, we didn't know if he hears us but we decided to come clean! We talked about all the funny memories, all the laughs, Mojgan came clean about datings and smoking, I came clean about dating the guy in high-school that I knew my dad would never approved of and many other confessions. Mojgan and I knew that he would still hear us he would be laughing. Around 3:30pm, we thought maybe baba wants privacy again. We whispered in his ears again that we're not going far, we'll just step out, that if he needs privacy we'll give it to him, that he can go, that he can be sure we'll take care of each other, we'd take care of maman, we'd make sure Mohammad is on a path to build a happy life for himself. We stepped out for about 20 minutes, when we came back baba had a very high fever, I held his hand, his hands were soft, not stiff anymore, I immediately called the nurse on duty she came over and gave baba a dose of medication. We knew baba was going within minutes. Baba was a very clean man, so I asked the nurses to bathe him quickly and so they did, as they were washing him i heard the nurse saying, oh yes, you are free know, you are leaving. We came to the room, I held baba's hand, Mojgan sat by his head stroking his hair, as we were still assuring him we'll be ok and he is free to go I realized baba's breathing spaced every 15 seconds, once, twice, three time, forth times, with each breath he made a long ahh.. sound, he had a big smile on his face.. the fifth breath never came, he was gone with his hand in my hands and with Mojgan's fingers stoking his salt and pepper hair.. he was gone forever with a smile on his face.

Mojgan and I held each-other and baba till morning and cried. We let maman sleep for a bit longer, we knew she's tired. We called my brother-in-law around 6:30, he came over. Baba was his dad too. He cried and cried with us. Around 9 we called home to break the news to maman and Mohammad. Maman said she's been up since 4am. They come over around 9am, maman broke down, she started talking to baba, combing his hair, straightening his body, washing his face, trimming his mustache and nails.. it was heartbreaking to see her so miserable. At some point she screamed that baba just moved, we knew it was just her imagining but still I decided to call her nurse to perform a full checkup maybe that'd put maman at ease. Baba left us forever on November 14, 2016 at exactly 4:00am.

Just an hour later, I had to get back to reality, I had to wipe my tears off and start planning the funeral with Navid. We were in pieces, this is the time I wished we were in Iran, I could have a moment to deal with emotions and stay with family while the rest would run to help with everything. But we were not home, we were on our own. Navid and I ran all the initial planning, later finalized with maman. Since baba had spiritual and religion beliefs, we respectfully held a Muslim ceremony in which on the following Saturday his body was transported to an Iranian mosque in Richmondhill and washed, they prayed on his body and we buried in a multicultural sematary. Baba loved babies, his grave is now right next to young children's section. This crushed us, but my family is tight and supportive..


How am I doing these days?
After baba's death, I have kept busy to distract myself. Throughout the day, even a minute of not having to do things occupies my mind. Since his death, I haven't gone to bed without shedding at least a few tears at nights. It still hurts, I still feel the guild even though deep down I know that was the right decision. I spend my few minutes that I get during the day painting, or working out to keep busy. It takes time, I am lucky to be surrounded by an amazing supportive family, husband, and two little amazing boys who keep me on my toes all day. I work for a great company and with amazing people who are respectful and supportive. I know one day eventually baba's beautiful memories will overcome all these bad memories and until then, I try to be strong, to keep busy, and keep going. **I need time and space to deal with emotions**
